docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Getting Started

## Requirements

- [`zsh`](http://www.zsh.org/) (v5.2 or recent) must be installed.
- [Powerline Font](https://github.com/powerline/fonts) must be installed and used in your terminal (for example, switch font to [Fira Code](https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode)).

## Installing

Now that the requirements are satisfied, you can install Spaceship via any of the following approaches:

=== "Manual"

    !!! hint
        If you're using any plugin manager, like Oh-My-Zsh, zplug, antigen or other, this might not be the best way to install Spaceship for you.

    This is way to install Spaceship if you don't use any tool for managing Zsh plugins.

    - Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt.git --depth=1`
    - Symlink `spaceship.zsh` to somewhere in [`$fpath`](http://www.refining-linux.org/archives/46/ZSH-Gem-12-Autoloading-functions/) as `prompt_spaceship_setup`.
    - Initialize prompt system and choose `spaceship`.

    #### Example

    Run `echo $fpath` to see possible location and link `spaceship.zsh` there, like:

    ```zsh
    $ ln -sf "$PWD/spaceship.zsh" "/usr/local/share/zsh/site-functions/prompt_spaceship_setup"
    ```

    For a user-specific installation, simply add a directory to `$fpath` for that user in `.zshrc`:

    ```zsh
    fpath=( "${ZDOTDIR:-$HOME}/.zfunctions" $fpath )
    ```

    Then install the theme like this:

    ```zsh
    $ ln -sf "$PWD/spaceship.zsh" "${ZDOTDIR:-$HOME}/.zfunctions/prompt_spaceship_setup"
    ```

    For initializing prompt system add this to your `.zshrc`:

    ```zsh
    # .zshrc
    autoload -U promptinit; promptinit
    prompt spaceship
    ```

=== "Homebrew"

    ```
    brew install spaceship
    ```

    You can also add the following to your [`Brewfile`](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-bundle#usage):

    ```ruby
    brew "spaceship"
    ```

=== "oh-my-zsh"

    Clone this repo:

    ```zsh
    git clone https://github.com/spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt.git "$ZSH_CUSTOM/themes/spaceship-prompt" --depth=1
    ```

    Symlink `spaceship.zsh-theme` to your oh-my-zsh custom themes directory:

    ```zsh
    ln -s "$ZSH_CUSTOM/themes/spaceship-prompt/spaceship.zsh-theme" "$ZSH_CUSTOM/themes/spaceship.zsh-theme"
    ```

    Set `ZSH_THEME="spaceship"` in your `.zshrc`.

=== "npm"

    ```
    npm install -g spaceship-prompt
    ```

    Done. This command should link `spaceship.zsh` as `prompt_spaceship_setup` to your `$fpath` and set `prompt spaceship` in `.zshrc`. Just reload your terminal.

    !!!tip
        Update Spaceship to new versions as you would any other package.

=== "prezto"

    - Follow [prezto-contrib#usage](https://github.com/belak/prezto-contrib#usage) to clone `prezto-contrib` to the proper location.
    - Enable the `contrib-prompt` module (before the `prompt` module).
    - Set `zstyle ':prezto:module:prompt' theme 'spaceship'` in your `.zpreztorc`.

=== "zim"

    Add `zmodule spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt --name spaceship` to your `.zimrc` and run `zimfw install`.

=== "antigen"

    Add the following snippet in your `.zshrc`:

    ```
    antigen theme spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt
    ```

=== "antibody"

    Update your `.zshrc` file with the following line:

    ```
    antibody bundle spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt
    ```

=== "zinit"

    Add the following line to your `.zshrc` where you're adding your other Zsh plugins:

    ```
    zinit light spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt
    ```

=== "zgen"

    Add the following line to your `.zshrc` where you're adding your other Zsh plugins:

    ```
    zgen load spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt spaceship
    ```

=== "zplug"

    Use this command in your `.zshrc` to load Spaceship as prompt theme:

    ```
    zplug "spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt", use:spaceship.zsh, from:github, as:theme
    ```

=== "Arch"

    Install the latest master from the AUR package [`spaceship-prompt-git`](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/spaceship-prompt-git/):

    ```
    git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/spaceship-prompt-git.git --depth=1
    cd spaceship-prompt-git
    makepkg -si
    ```

## Congratulations!

You've made it! You've installed Spaceship on your machine!

What's next? Spaceship has reasonable defaults, but you might want to adjust them to your needs. Visit our [Options](./options.md) page to learn how to configure your Spaceship.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! tip
    Follow [our Twitter](//twitter.com/SpaceshipPrompt) to keep yourself updated about new features, improvements, and bugfixes.

## Troubleshooting

Having trouble? Take a look at out [Troubleshooting](./troubleshooting.md) page.

Still struggling? Please, [file an issue](https://github.com/spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt/issues/new/choose), describe your problem and we will gladly help you.

Commit message:

refactor(install): simplify the installation process
THis PR simplifies the installation scripts. Inspired by
https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure/pull/494

BREAKING CHANGE: Now users have to manually enable prompt system and choose spaceship

docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Getting Started

## Requirements

- [`zsh`](http://www.zsh.org/) (v5.2 or recent) must be installed.
- [Powerline Font](https://github.com/powerline/fonts) must be installed and used in your terminal (for example, switch font to [Fira Code](https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode)).

## Installing

Now that the requirements are satisfied, you can install Spaceship via any of the following approaches:

=== "Manual"

    !!! hint
        If you're using any plugin manager, like Oh-My-Zsh, zplug, antigen or other, this might not be the best way to install Spaceship for you.

    1. Clone this repo somewhere, for example to `$HOME/.zsh/spaceship`.
    2. Add the path of the cloned repo to `$fpath` in `$HOME/.zshrc`.

    #### Example

    ```zsh
    mkdir -p "$HOME/.zsh"
    git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/sindresorhus/pure.git "$HOME/.zsh/spaceship"
    fpath+="$HOME/.zsh/spaceship"
    ```

    For initializing prompt system add this to your `.zshrc`:

    ```zsh
    # .zshrc
    autoload -U promptinit; promptinit
    prompt spaceship
    ```

=== "Homebrew"

    ```
    brew install spaceship
    ```

    For initializing prompt system add this to your `.zshrc`:

    ```zsh
    # .zshrc
    autoload -U promptinit; promptinit
    prompt spaceship
    ```

    !!! hint
        You can also add the following to your [`Brewfile`](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-bundle#usage):

        ```ruby
        brew "spaceship"
        ```

=== "oh-my-zsh"

    Clone this repo:

    ```zsh
    git clone https://github.com/spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt.git "$ZSH_CUSTOM/themes/spaceship-prompt" --depth=1
    ```

    Symlink `spaceship.zsh-theme` to your oh-my-zsh custom themes directory:

    ```zsh
    ln -s "$ZSH_CUSTOM/themes/spaceship-prompt/spaceship.zsh-theme" "$ZSH_CUSTOM/themes/spaceship.zsh-theme"
    ```

    Set `ZSH_THEME="spaceship"` in your `.zshrc`.

=== "npm"

    ```
    npm install -g spaceship-prompt
    ```

    Done. This command should link `spaceship.zsh` as `prompt_spaceship_setup` to your `$fpath`.

    For initializing prompt system add this to your `.zshrc`:

    ```zsh
    # .zshrc
    autoload -U promptinit; promptinit
    prompt spaceship
    ```

    !!!tip
        Update Spaceship to new versions as you would any other package.

=== "prezto"

    - Follow [prezto-contrib#usage](https://github.com/belak/prezto-contrib#usage) to clone `prezto-contrib` to the proper location.
    - Enable the `contrib-prompt` module (before the `prompt` module).
    - Set `zstyle ':prezto:module:prompt' theme 'spaceship'` in your `.zpreztorc`.

=== "zim"

    Add `zmodule spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt --name spaceship` to your `.zimrc` and run `zimfw install`.

=== "antigen"

    Add the following snippet in your `.zshrc`:

    ```
    antigen theme spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt
    ```

=== "antibody"

    Update your `.zshrc` file with the following line:

    ```
    antibody bundle spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt
    ```

=== "zinit"

    Add the following line to your `.zshrc` where you're adding your other Zsh plugins:

    ```
    zinit light spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt
    ```

=== "zgen"

    Add the following line to your `.zshrc` where you're adding your other Zsh plugins:

    ```
    zgen load spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt spaceship
    ```

=== "zplug"

    Use this command in your `.zshrc` to load Spaceship as prompt theme:

    ```
    zplug "spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt", use:spaceship.zsh, from:github, as:theme
    ```

=== "Arch"

    Install the latest master from the AUR package [`spaceship-prompt-git`](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/spaceship-prompt-git/):

    ```
    git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/spaceship-prompt-git.git --depth=1
    cd spaceship-prompt-git
    makepkg -si
    ```

## Congratulations!

You've made it! You've installed Spaceship on your machine!

What's next? Spaceship has reasonable defaults, but you might want to adjust them to your needs. Visit our [Options](./options.md) page to learn how to configure your Spaceship.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! tip
    Follow [our Twitter](//twitter.com/SpaceshipPrompt) to keep yourself updated about new features, improvements, and bugfixes.

## Troubleshooting

Having trouble? Take a look at out [Troubleshooting](./troubleshooting.md) page.

Still struggling? Please, [file an issue](https://github.com/spaceship-prompt/spaceship-prompt/issues/new/choose), describe your problem and we will gladly help you.
